Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, I know that you've all been following very closely
the presidents of White House Conference on Children and Youth, which is being held here
in Washington this week.
Today in the studio, we have some of the distinguished delegates from Tennessee to
this most important conference for the youth of our nation, and I will introduce
people who are here from my right to the left.
Dr. Roy Baker, who is the Commissioner of Mental Health and the State of Tennessee, is
with us, and very important in this conference.
Next on my right is not a delegate to the conference, she has been following very closely
in the newspaper on television and the radio of my life, Nancy.
What do you think about the conference, Nancy?
Well, I'm tremendously interested.
I'm convinced from all I've heard that the mother's place is in the home.
Keep the children busy.
Find something for you can take a little bit of experience with four of them.
Great experience.
And on my left is Professor Popdhar of Central High School at Chattanooga, who has been
a student of these problems for a long, long time.
It's good to have you with us, Popdhar.
And Dr. Raymond Ballister of Nashville, who is one of the managers of the Tennessee
Parent Teachers Association.
As both of us start with you, Popdhar, tell us what this conference is all about.
And Sam, there are 7,000 people here, some children.
Some of them are approximately 7,000 delegates from the different states and 500 from foreign
countries.
Each day there are five assemblies, theme assemblies, hell, 18 forums, and 210 workshops daily.
Each person participates in each one of them.
I understand Dr. Ballister, you have your large meetings in the morning and then the
division meetings in the afternoon.
It represents two or three hundred conferences going on at the same time as what it amounts
to that several small groups get together and discuss specific topics after having received
some stimulation and background information from the general session.
Now we had a great conference like this in 1950 and this is the one following that conference
of 1960.
Dr. Baker, the president addressed the first meeting of the conference, didn't he?
Yes, he did.
I tell us a lot of your question of his speech.
Very inspiring talk, I think.
This was very well attended, of course, being the first session on Sunday night.
And I think that the president's talk set the tone for the whole conference, really.
Yes, it was.
It was a splendid address that he made.
And Mr. Dyer, how many are here from Tennessee?
I think I've never seen a better cross section of more splendid people.
Senator, I believe we have approximately one hundred delegates from the state of Tennessee.
I believe 64 have been appointed by the governor directly and I believe about 35 to 40 have
been appointed by the various organizations throughout the nation.
And a very large proportion of being young people.
Yes, that's important.
That's important so they can talk about their problems themselves.
Well, let me ask, now we are not just talking about opportunities for youth generally and
not just talking about what can be done relative to the three or three and a half percent, get
to be juvenile to Lindwoods.
But we are living in a new world, aren't we, a fast moving world in which all values and
which methods of yesterday might not exactly fit today.
Is that right, Dr. Baker?
That's certainly correct.
Ideas are just moving at such a terrific pace that it's hard for youth to know which
values to embrace.
And which values adults should pass on?
Adults don't know either.
Well Nancy, what do you think about in the summertime about keeping kids busy?
That's...
Oh, I think it's terribly important.
How do you do it?
Well, they have cats.
I think cats are tremendously helpful and they develop so much interest.
We found a very good thing when David has wanted to get some money that we let him collect
all the newspapers and take him down to the junk dealer and sell them and that certainly
keeps him very, very busy.
Well, there are so many things that we could talk about, but I know out of this great conference
will come much good work, recommendations for legislation, increased interest back home
and much good for our nation will be the result of this White House conference on you.
Thank you very much, Nancy and gentlemen, for being with me.
That's all for now.
Good bye, until next week.